= Action Objects

For interactive worksheets with xref:/Scripting.adoc[scripting] Action Objects may come handy. There are four types of
them:

== [#Checkboxes]#Checkboxes#

Checkboxes are graphical representations of xref:/Boolean_values.adoc[Boolean values]. See
image:22px-Mode_showcheckbox.svg.png[Mode showcheckbox.svg,width=22,height=22] xref:/tools/Check_Box_Tool.adoc[Check Box
Tool] for details. Checkboxes can be created using the aforementioned tool or the
xref:/commands/Checkbox_Command.adoc[Checkbox Command].

== [#Input_Boxes]#Input Boxes#

Input Boxes work as text inputs for xref:/Scripting.adoc[scripts]. The script is triggered by changing text in the Input
Box and either pressing enter or leaving the Input Box. The inserted value may be accessed using the %0 variable.

[EXAMPLE]

====

Input Box with `++a=a+%0++` in its _OnClick_ script will increase number _a_ by the entered value. Works only if _a_ is
xref:/Free_Dependent_and_Auxiliary_Objects.adoc[free].

====

If you want the Input Box to change value of a free object (or redefine dependent object), you may define that object as
linked. This way you don't have to insert any script. Input Boxes can be created using the
image:22px-Mode_textfieldaction.svg.png[Mode textfieldaction.svg,width=22,height=22]
xref:/tools/Input_Box_Tool.adoc[Input Box Tool] or the xref:/commands/InputBox_Command.adoc[InputBox Command].

== [#Buttons]#Buttons#

Buttons are meant to trigger scripts by being clicked. Although scripts can be triggered by clicking any other object
(e.g. an xref:/tools/Image_Tool.adoc[image]), using buttons for this makes your worksheet more intuitive. Buttons can be
created using the image:22px-Mode_buttonaction.svg.png[Mode buttonaction.svg,width=22,height=22]
xref:/tools/Button_Tool.adoc[Button Tool] or the xref:/commands/Button_Command.adoc[Button Command].

== [#Drop-down_lists]#Drop-down lists#

If you want to show the contents of a list, organized in a drop-down list:

* in the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/Graphics_View.adoc[Graphics View]: check the _Draw as drop-down list_ box in the _Basics_ tab of the
image:18px-Menu-options.svg.png[Menu-options.svg,width=18,height=18] xref:/Properties_Dialog.adoc[Properties Dialog] of
the list.
* in the image:16px-Menu_view_spreadsheet.svg.png[Menu view spreadsheet.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/Spreadsheet_View.adoc[Spreadsheet View]: enter a list into the spreadsheet, then check the _Use Buttons and
Checkboxes_ box in the image:16px-Menu_view_spreadsheet.svg.png[Menu view spreadsheet.svg,width=16,height=16]
_Spreadsheet Options_.

The selected element of a drop-down list may be also obtained using
xref:/commands/SelectedIndex_Command.adoc[SelectedIndex] and
xref:/commands/SelectedElement_Command.adoc[SelectedElement] commands.

[EXAMPLE]

====

To create a drop-down list with three functions `++x+1++`, `++x^2++`, `++sqrt(x)++`, first create a list by typing
`++L={x+1, x^2,sqrt(x)}++` in the input bar. Then right-click the list in _Algebra View_ and select _Object
Properties..._. Select the _Draw as drop-down list_ option in the appearing dialog window. You can also enter a caption
that describes the drop-down list. In order to plot in _Graphics View_ the currently selected function, enter the
command `++SelectedElement(L)++` in the input bar .

====
