= Custom Tools

GeoGebra allows you to create your own construction tools based on an existing construction. Once created, your custom
tool can be used both with a pointing device and as a command in the xref:/Input_Bar.adoc[Input Bar]. All tools are
automatically saved in your GeoGebra file.

[NOTE]

====

Outputs of the tool are not movable (i.e. you can't drag them with the mouse), even if they are defined as
`++Point[<Path>]++`. In case you need movable output, you can define a list of commands and use it with
xref:/commands/Execute_Command.adoc[Execute Command].

====

== [#Creating_custom_tools]#Creating custom tools#

To create a custom tool, use the option image:16px-Menu-tools-new.svg.png[Menu-tools-new.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/Tool_Creation_Dialog.adoc[Create new tool] from image:16px-Menu-tools.svg.png[Menu-tools.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/Tools_Menu.adoc[Tools Menu].

== [#Saving_custom_tools]#Saving custom tools#

When you save the construction as GGB file, all custom tools are stored in it. To save the tools in separate file(s) use
the xref:/Tool_Manager_Dialog.adoc[Tool Manager Dialog] (option
image:16px-Menu-tools.svg.png[Menu-tools.svg,width=16,height=16] _Manage Tools_ from
image:16px-Menu-tools.svg.png[Menu-tools.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Tools_Menu.adoc[Tools Menu]).

[NOTE]

====

Custom tools will be saved as GGT file to distinguish them from normal GeoGebra files (GGB).

====

== [#Accessing_custom_tools]#Accessing custom tools#

If you open a new GeoGebra interface using item image:16px-Menu-file-new.svg.png[Menu-file-new.svg,width=16,height=16]
_New_ from the image:16px-Menu-file.svg.png[Menu-file.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/File_Menu.adoc[File Menu], after you
created a custom tool, it will still be part of the GeoGebra toolbar. However, if you open a new GeoGebra window (item
image:Menu_New.png[Menu New.png,width=16,height=16] _New Window_ from the
image:16px-Menu-file.svg.png[Menu-file.svg,width=16,height=16] _File Menu_), or open GeoGebra on another day, your
custom tools won’t be part of the toolbar any more.

There are different ways of making sure that your user defined tools are displayed in the toolbar of a new GeoGebra
window:

* After creating a new user defined tool you can save your settings using item
image:16px-Menu-file-save.svg.png[Menu-file-save.svg,width=16,height=16] _Save Settings_ from the
image:16px-Menu-options.svg.png[Menu-options.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Options_Menu.adoc[Options Menu]. From now on,
your customized tool will be part of the GeoGebra toolbar.

[NOTE]

====

You can remove the custom tool from the toolbar after opening item
image:16px-Menu-tools-customize.svg.png[Menu-tools-customize.svg,width=16,height=16] _Customize Toolbar_ from the
image:16px-Menu-tools.svg.png[Menu-tools.svg,width=16,height=16] _Tools Menu_. Then, select your custom tool from the
list of tools on the left hand side of the appearing dialog window and click the _Remove_ button (GeoGebra Desktop
Version) or drag and drop it to the right hand side (GeoGebra Web and Tablet Apps Version). Don’t forget to save your
settings after removing the custom tool.

====

== [#Importing_custom_tools]#Importing custom tools#

* After saving your custom tool on your computer (as a GGT file), you can import it into a new GeoGebra window at any
time. Just select item image:16px-Menu-file-open.svg.png[Menu-file-open.svg,width=16,height=16] _Open_ from the
image:16px-Menu-file.svg.png[Menu-file.svg,width=16,height=16] _File Menu_ and open the file of your custom tool.

[NOTE]

====

* Opening a GeoGebra tool file (GGT) in GeoGebra doesn’t affect your current construction. It only makes this tool part
of the current GeoGebra toolbar.
* You can also load GGT file by dragging it from file manager and dropping into GeoGebra window.

====
